well I don't agree with it so I don't
agree to but there now you're getting
our getting to it yeah no they're not I
agree with everything except the bottom
line I mean let's take let's take a
really harsh institution that we don't
argue about slavery okay nobody thinks
slavery was good I presume nevertheless
everything that you just said could be
said about slavery I mean if you took a
look at the plantation economy there
were masters who were very decent people
they treated the slaves very nicely in
fact they were treated better than free
workers much better and there they were
allowed to live their family lives you
know I mean they didn't beat him up or
anything but it didn't matter
it was slavery and maybe some of them
you know gave money to the church and
did all kind of decent things probably
they did you know nice people but the
trouble was the institution the
institution was wrong it doesn't matter
whether you do it nicely or not nicely
people you know the idea that a person
should be owned is just an intolerable
infringement on human rights whether the
person who owns them is nice to them or
not and you know in the 19th century it
was widely recognized that the same is
true of people are rented it's an
intolerable infringement on people's
rights even if the guy who rents you is
nice to you the question is whether
decisions over investment production and
distribution what happens in the shop
floor conditions of work all that kind
of stuff whether those decisions are
should be out of public control you go
back to the 19th century when there was
a live popular libertarian working class
movement and you will read in the
Knights of Labor statement publications
that wage slavery is not a lot different
from slavery in fact if you bother to go
back to the origins of democratic
thought now you really read the
classics the classics of Littman people
claimed to be classical liberals and so
on but you could back and read this
stuff you know like say go home from
Humboldt who was the inspiration of John
Stuart Mill he says the leading
principle of its you know the great
classical liberal you know large in the
whole business the leading principle of
his thought is that human beings are
born to he said to inquire and create
and to create under their own initiative
any if any work that a person does under
outside pressure is inhuman if a person
creates something beautiful under
outside orders we may admire what he
does but we will despise what he is well
that's classical liberal thought you
know they don't tell you that in Chicago
school but that's class any wouldn't
they tell you what Adam Smith really
said which is very different from what's
claimed but that's classical liberal
thought and it's because it was driven
by you know concepts of human rights and
human dignity z' which are seriously
infringed by the structure of business
operations even if the guys who run it
are nice guys you can't be a nice guy in
certain positions because the
institution is not nice now I'm not you
know like I'm not saying let's go out
and blow up Lotus you know sure not not
at all I mean yes among the best buns
around but that doesn't lead us to over
I think it should not lead us to
overlook what's fundamentally wrong with
that authoritarian structure